David Schaich (he): First let's get the recording under way,
David Schaich (he): and then switch back to
David Schaich (he): that.
David Schaich (he): We can get going
David Schaich (he): with Tuesday the
David Schaich (he): thirty-first of January,
David Schaich (he): and I have a
David Schaich (he): 6-digit attendance code for you:
David Schaich (he): 2, 5, 8,
David Schaich (he): 5, 0, or 3.
David Schaich (he): Let's quickly
David Schaich (he): check that I need to zoom in.
David Schaich (he): And I will say for
David Schaich (he): anyone who is connected to the Zoom Meeting
David Schaich (he): that with the doc-cam set up like this, I'm not going to be able to see any messages in the chat window.
David Schaich (he): So shout out if there are issues,
David Schaich (he): and we'll hope Zoom is connected to the
David Schaich (he): room's audio. Picking up
David Schaich (he): just a day after the first two hours of lecture yesterday, let's do a quick recap to
David Schaich (he): remind ourselves that, in addition to some of the more logistical stuff.
David Schaich (he): Do you
David Schaich (he): discussed briefly the the big picture of statistical physics which is going to be the emergence. Large scale behavior.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): arises from
David Schaich (he): the underlying dynamics of
David Schaich (he): many degrees of freedom of the particles.
David Schaich (he): and we started getting under way on the
David Schaich (he): long journey toward that sort of emerging behavior. Things like the arrow of time.
And
David Schaich (he): this doesn't matter I
David Schaich (he): going through some fairly formal mathematical definitions of experiments and states and measurements and outcomes
David Schaich (he): key concepts
David Schaich (he): from all of that to
David Schaich (he): here and now is that these measurements.
David Schaich (he): giving us away to
David Schaich (he): extract
David Schaich (he): quantities or
David Schaich (he): numbers really where we can mathematically control
David Schaich (he): a larger scale.
David Schaich (he): Experiments that we do which
David Schaich (he): can actually be doing something. I just
David Schaich (he): observing the state of the universe.
David Schaich (he): imagine a collection of particles, 10 to the power, 23 of them, based on all the gamma's number, just observing them at regular points in time, gives us information about the states of the world. We fill that through the measurements to extract, say, random variables, that
David Schaich (he): we can analyze mathematically
David Schaich (he): the probability here
David Schaich (he): spaces that we defined so
David Schaich (he): collection of
David Schaich (he): all of the possible outcomes of
David Schaich (he): some measurements following some experimental observation.
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): event space that collects some of those outcomes of interest.
David Schaich (he): and then the probabilities that map every events
David Schaich (he): to a real number between 0.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): are there any questions about
David Schaich (he): any of that stuff that we went through
David Schaich (he): last time
David Schaich (he): you wrapped up
David Schaich (he): yesterday just by
David Schaich (he): defining the
David Schaich (he): mean oops
David Schaich (he): you, which is
David Schaich (he): the expectation value
David Schaich (he): you give them, the
David Schaich (he): outcomes
David Schaich (he): in the outcome space.
David Schaich (he): The outcome is still
David Schaich (he): by a probability for the current.
David Schaich (he): and similarly the
David Schaich (he): variance
David Schaich (he): call it Sigma Square.
David Schaich (he): gives us the expected value of
David Schaich (he): fluctuations around that meeting
David Schaich (he): You find in the same way the expectation value
David Schaich (he): just being the sum over all outcomes
David Schaich (he): of the quantity of interest
David Schaich (he): to these
David Schaich (he): fluctuations around that meeting.
David Schaich (he): The probability of
David Schaich (he): the outcomes that we are summing over, and the next step
David Schaich (he): Well, today
David Schaich (he): is going to be
David Schaich (he): to build on that.
David Schaich (he): to get to
David Schaich (he): the standard deviation.
David Schaich (he): And then the 2 of the
David Schaich (he): he results that.
David Schaich (he): or the underlying reason why it's smooth the merchant Large scale. The 8 of you can arise from random or to
David Schaich (he): dynamics of underlying degrees of freedom.
David Schaich (he): You should get through
David Schaich (he): so-called.
David Schaich (he): should also see the central
David Schaich (he): suspect
David Schaich (he): you have seen before, possibly many times so we will just present it in the relevant terms for statistical physics, and i'll bother with
David Schaich (he): a whole derivation of proof.
David Schaich (he): and then sort of
David Schaich (he): those results
David Schaich (he): in the context of
David Schaich (he): random walks.
David Schaich (he): No well
David Schaich (he): of diffusion
David Schaich (he): which are more interesting than they said.
David Schaich (he): unless they sound very interesting, in which case they are
David Schaich (he): Next.
David Schaich (he): I have space here. I'll keep going.
David Schaich (he): Have you introduced
David Schaich (he): the meeting variance last time.
David Schaich (he): We will also be interested in
David Schaich (he): the standard deviation.
David Schaich (he): Let me give the probability space.
David Schaich (he): This is similarly square rooms
David Schaich (he): of the variance
David Schaich (he): which
David Schaich (he): you can express in
David Schaich (he): possibly
David Schaich (he): familiar with this
David Schaich (he): variance was the expected value of fluctuations
David Schaich (he): around.
so
David Schaich (he): is
David Schaich (he): the expected value.
David Schaich (he): Oh.
David Schaich (he): the elements of the outcome set. I'm calling X
David Schaich (he): and expanding that square.
David Schaich (he): It's just giving us the expected value.
David Schaich (he): Oh.
David Schaich (he): hmm!
David Schaich (he): You can be 3 terms from the square for respect to
David Schaich (he): this 2 times.
David Schaich (he): X times the mean we have expected, the only x.
David Schaich (he): and then plus
David Schaich (he): that expected the only self squared, and from the fact that
David Schaich (he): the expectation. Value is a linear operation as we saw last time.
David Schaich (he): It's all pretty so
David Schaich (he): into the
David Schaich (he): that is twice
David Schaich (he): expectation.
David Schaich (he): It's just there
David Schaich (he): constant that the expectation that it doesn't do anything to
David Schaich (he): and overall
David Schaich (he): you know it. Possibly
David Schaich (he): familiar result that the Billings
David Schaich (he): is
David Schaich (he): off the screen. The expectation value of the square, minus the square of the expectation value
David Schaich (he): and the standard deviation
David Schaich (he): the cell. Then
David Schaich (he): it's just the
David Schaich (he): square root
David Schaich (he): of that combination.
David Schaich (he): possibly something that
David Schaich (he): you have seen before, and hopefully, not surprisingly.
David Schaich (he): objections to
David Schaich (he): a calculation.
David Schaich (he): What we do with this now is
David Schaich (he): start generalizing sort of formal stuff
David Schaich (he): that we went through yesterday with probabilities
David Schaich (he): and consider
David Schaich (he): repeated experiments.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): you take
David Schaich (he): the experiments that we've been talking about so far.
David Schaich (he): and we define
David Schaich (he): a new experiments.
David Schaich (he): Yes.
David Schaich (he): simply
David Schaich (he): repeats this. The
David Schaich (he): some number of times.
David Schaich (he): Call that number R:
David Schaich (he): our repetitions.
David Schaich (he): The experiment. Yeah.
David Schaich (he): that experiment has
David Schaich (he): the outcome space.
David Schaich (he): You've been talking about a
David Schaich (he): and the
David Schaich (he): outcome space
David Schaich (he): of the repeated
David Schaich (he): new experiments.
David Schaich (he): what we call it the
David Schaich (he): the next letter available.
David Schaich (he): So if we
David Schaich (he): go back to the example that we have
David Schaich (he): when we had a
David Schaich (he): find out out from space
David Schaich (he): the outcome is exporting X to
David Schaich (he): X in.
David Schaich (he): and if we illustrations that are to be 4,
David Schaich (he): what are
David Schaich (he): so? The outcomes that we can expect to
David Schaich (he): be in the outcome space be on this new experiment of the piece
David Schaich (he): the original spirits
David Schaich (he): 4 times
David Schaich (he): right again. Now
David Schaich (he): exactly so.
David Schaich (he): for example that could be
David Schaich (he): Yeah. The first time the experiment is repeated we get out coming X one.
David Schaich (he): the second repetition
David Schaich (he): next one
David Schaich (he): third repetition here's Outcome X. One
David Schaich (he): for repetition
David Schaich (he): next one
David Schaich (he): that is one possible outcome in our new outcome space of the repeated experiment.
David Schaich (he): let's see
David Schaich (he): possibly simple one
David Schaich (he): could it as well. It's not
David Schaich (he): 47
David Schaich (he): from X 73. I'll come next one, and maybe that last
David Schaich (he): many more of these all characterized as you said, my
David Schaich (he): 4 outcomes of that original experiment.
David Schaich (he): So with that the size of a the number of elements in a
David Schaich (he): Yes, and
David Schaich (he): we can tell that the size of the is going to be much larger
David Schaich (he): for each revision. You will have
David Schaich (he): all in possibilities. Okay, original experiments
coming out
David Schaich (he): those outcomes.
David Schaich (he): The next repetition you get another.
David Schaich (he): and so on.
David Schaich (he): Our times.
David Schaich (he): The total number of elements in
David Schaich (he): the outcome Space B of this new repeated experiment
David Schaich (he): is
David Schaich (he): into the power R:
David Schaich (he): so it is
David Schaich (he): exponentially larger.
David Schaich (he): Then
David Schaich (he): the original
David Schaich (he): outcome space area.
David Schaich (he): unless I suppose we have a situation where the out and they say it was all continuous. That's a possibility.
David Schaich (he): and then it becomes
David Schaich (he): all right.
David Schaich (he): Those are possibilities.
David Schaich (he): Yeah. Well.
David Schaich (he): for any given outcome.
David Schaich (he): let's call it X.
David Schaich (he): I. J. K.
David Schaich (he): Are
David Schaich (he): outcomes of the repeated experiments
David Schaich (he): all combined together.
David Schaich (he): Yes, that's some element of B.
David Schaich (he): The
David Schaich (he): characteristics for the properties of this of these repeated outcomes
David Schaich (he): I want to be
David Schaich (he): determined
David Schaich (he): by
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): Our outcomes
David Schaich (he): superscripts are in parentheses.
David Schaich (he): It's clear that that's not a power. It's just a label. There are these outcomes in a and putting them together is giving us any outcome.
David Schaich (he): You can be.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): in particular.
David Schaich (he): if we have the mean and variance
David Schaich (he): of these single experiments for single repetition experiments.
David Schaich (he): so each outcome, and a
David Schaich (he): because so many you.
David Schaich (he): It is
David Schaich (he): that various.
David Schaich (he): See on the square
David Schaich (he): we can expect the
David Schaich (he): these properties New and Sigma squared
David Schaich (he): on the
David Schaich (he): now familiar with the outcome, set a to govern
David Schaich (he): the 80. Or
David Schaich (he): this outcome said, be, or even I should say it more generally space
David Schaich (he): if we think about the probability
David Schaich (he): based on the outcome of the of this repeated experiment.
David Schaich (he): Oh.
David Schaich (he): one of these outcomes.
David Schaich (he): this this
David Schaich (he): X I. X. K. And excel.
David Schaich (he): that brings up
David Schaich (he): into the product
David Schaich (he): of the probability coming from the probability space of the original, the original
David Schaich (he): of getting outcome, I one time
David Schaich (he): the single experiment
David Schaich (he): for the next. J.
David Schaich (he): Similarly, for
David Schaich (he): however many calls the experiment
David Schaich (he): is repeated.
David Schaich (he): What we can do.
David Schaich (he): thanks to
David Schaich (he): this
David Schaich (he): fact that the repeated experiments is being determined by the experiment being repeated that way hopefully sounds intuitive.
David Schaich (he): We can consider the
David Schaich (he): the arithmetic mean.
David Schaich (he): Oh.
David Schaich (he): the individual outcome of X.
David Schaich (he): So that's the next bar.
David Schaich (he): and for this subscript on this is to indicate that the name
David Schaich (he): we are considering. It is something over.
David Schaich (he): Those are repetitions of that experiment.
David Schaich (he): and then averaging over the sum.
David Schaich (he): i'll be.com.
David Schaich (he): Oh.
David Schaich (he): each of those experiments being repeated.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): we've discussed that
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): individual outcome.
David Schaich (he): This X of R is so
David Schaich (he): are
David Schaich (he): is a random variable of our.
David Schaich (he): The arithmetic mean that we have here which collects together all our repetitions in that experiment is itself a random variable.
David Schaich (he): but it is
David Schaich (he): now, I think it because it involves all of the repetitions of the experiment. It's a random variable. I' that repeated experiment
connected to
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): much larger app from space.
David Schaich (he): So every time we repeat
David Schaich (he): the original experiment our lines.
David Schaich (he): you will get some
David Schaich (he): based on the random fluctuations of the original experiments
David Schaich (he): be repeated. Those are times
David Schaich (he): so repeating. The new
David Schaich (he): gives us random values for this arithmetic meeting. X Bar.
David Schaich (he): It depends on
David Schaich (he): are the number of repetitions. How many times
David Schaich (he): that that original experiment there's lots of repetition in
David Schaich (he): at the
David Schaich (he): layers of
David Schaich (he): of different
David Schaich (he): clear.
David Schaich (he): and what we can do now.
David Schaich (he): it is
David Schaich (he): 2,
David Schaich (he): you
David Schaich (he): of just the single
David Schaich (he): experiment.
David Schaich (he): so long as we assume
David Schaich (he): first step that
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): what is this fine?
David Schaich (he): And we also
David Schaich (he): I'll be you
David Schaich (he): single experiment you
David Schaich (he): and Sigma Square of.
David Schaich (he): and that
David Schaich (he): the way we will do this
David Schaich (he): relation.
David Schaich (he): It's 2.
David Schaich (he): See what I can put on me
David Schaich (he): screen there. At the same time
David Schaich (he): you will consider a particular
David Schaich (he): expectation value.
David Schaich (he): Now, coming over this refused experiment.
David Schaich (he): We have the
David Schaich (he): difference between the arithmetic meeting based on our repetitions
David Schaich (he): and the
David Schaich (he): truly view of the single experiments that we started off with
David Schaich (he): just plug in the definition of that.
David Schaich (he): It's going to be one over our
David Schaich (he): something over
David Schaich (he): on the single experiment outcomes
David Schaich (he): and still attracting
David Schaich (he): constant single experiment. Me.
David Schaich (he): Let's see what we can say about
David Schaich (he): this expectation. Now
you first is pull out
David Schaich (he): again. Expectation values in your operation. One over r is a constant with the fixed number of repetitions.
David Schaich (he): So which is
David Schaich (he): It's pulled out the
David Schaich (he): expectation value squared along the way.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): we can
David Schaich (he): do a little trick. So, pulling out
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): one over all those terms will give us
David Schaich (he): our times new within the square.
David Schaich (he): We can notice that this is just
David Schaich (he): what we would get from something the constants mean you
David Schaich (he): our times.
David Schaich (he): so we can combine
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): 2 terms here.
David Schaich (he): and in the
David Schaich (he): consider the difference
David Schaich (he): minus the
David Schaich (he): and then
David Schaich (he): so just
David Schaich (he): make sure that all of the parentheses lined up. It is the sum itself.
David Schaich (he): And now each term in the cell has this difference
David Schaich (he): between the outcome X and the mean mute.
David Schaich (he): of course, swearing things.
David Schaich (he): It's the same as
David Schaich (he): multiplying them
David Schaich (he): by themselves.
David Schaich (he): When you do that we can just change
David Schaich (he): There it is
David Schaich (he): to say that you are summing over
David Schaich (he): S rather than something over R. It's a fairly
David Schaich (he): pretty.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): this sort of makes it clear that
David Schaich (he): you can plug in some
David Schaich (he): hopefully familiar
David Schaich (he): arithmetic.
David Schaich (he): The product of 2 songs
David Schaich (he): call something over. I and J
David Schaich (he): is the same as the some of the combined
David Schaich (he): bye
David Schaich (he): counting
David Schaich (he): of all those possibilities. So this is
David Schaich (he): the distributive.
David Schaich (he): and it allows us to
David Schaich (he): right
David Schaich (he): our expectation down
David Schaich (he): as a single cell
David Schaich (he): over both of this R. And S.
David Schaich (he): Of the product.
David Schaich (he): The fluctuations you are
David Schaich (he): around that meeting.
David Schaich (he): The fluctuations of S
David Schaich (he): Now
David Schaich (he): what we would have had is that
David Schaich (he): we had the same as here. We could recognize
David Schaich (he): this expectation. Value is related to
David Schaich (he): variance of the you
David Schaich (he): single experiment.
David Schaich (he): The
David Schaich (he): check this over here
the expectation value
David Schaich (he): of X minus u squared.
David Schaich (he): which is the sum over all the outcomes weighted by probabilities.
David Schaich (he): Okay, X minus me squared.
David Schaich (he): But we don't. We get that very when all this
David Schaich (he): all the same.
David Schaich (he): so we can put in.
David Schaich (he): you know, chronic or delta.
David Schaich (he): Delta. R. S.
David Schaich (he): Is chronic, or you know, familiar piece of that radical notation
David Schaich (he): that's one
David Schaich (he): when R equals S. And 0 otherwise.
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): what we have
David Schaich (he): at this point the variance Sigma is another constant that comes out with
David Schaich (he): expectation down
David Schaich (he): the expectation that only still
David Schaich (he): is, in fact, not just
David Schaich (he): acting on
David Schaich (he): some for all of us.
David Schaich (he): A Delta Rs.
David Schaich (he): We pick out.
David Schaich (he): We set our equals to S. That Delta becomes one.
David Schaich (he): and we still have
David Schaich (he): some over the other
David Schaich (he): of those variables.
David Schaich (he): Our our terms in that some.
David Schaich (he): So Sigma Square
David Schaich (he): over Our Square
David Schaich (he): all the
David Schaich (he): or simply
David Schaich (he): the various divided.
Oh.
David Schaich (he): so we resume that that variance is, Find it
David Schaich (he): if we
David Schaich (he): look at the
David Schaich (he): minutes.
David Schaich (he): but all going to infinity, we have a finite number
David Schaich (he): if I
David Schaich (he): so this overall expression that we started off, with which just barely fits up the
David Schaich (he): projection, there
David Schaich (he): we can sell. The limits of are going to infinity
David Schaich (he): vanishes.
David Schaich (he): which is interesting.
David Schaich (he): You have this.
So
David Schaich (he): all those
David Schaich (he): no problems
David Schaich (he): across the
David Schaich (he): repeated experiments waited by
David Schaich (he): the probability of probably is a not negative number between 0 and one.
David Schaich (he): Each of these terms is a square. So it's also.
Yeah.
David Schaich (he): So we have a cell
David Schaich (he): products of non-negative numbers that are all adding up to 0.
David Schaich (he): The only way that could happen
David Schaich (he): is it every single one of them
David Schaich (he): 0, that some?
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): let's see.
David Schaich (he): Put that down.
David Schaich (he): Austerity.
David Schaich (he): Yeah, concluded that every term
David Schaich (he): in the expectation value here is 0,
David Schaich (he): which, if we
David Schaich (he): at least we have limits for the number of repetitions
David Schaich (he): it goes to infinity.
David Schaich (he): We have
David Schaich (he): the arithmetic mean
David Schaich (he): minus the being. A single experiment. Distribution.
David Schaich (he): Each of those has to equals 0,
David Schaich (he): which we can
David Schaich (he): rearrange
David Schaich (he): is to say that that arithmetic mean
David Schaich (he): to
David Schaich (he): the the of the true mean of the original capability distribution in the of a large number of repetitions.
David Schaich (he): And this is
David Schaich (he): yeah.
David Schaich (he): so called law large numbers.
Yes.
David Schaich (he): I promise we would get through today
David Schaich (he): the statement that.
David Schaich (he): as we have a large number of repetitions.
David Schaich (he): we don't necessarily need to worry about
David Schaich (he): the true mean of the probability space which is computed by
David Schaich (he): averaging over a computer by considering every single possible outcome.
David Schaich (he): Oh, yes.
experiments and measurement which could well be
David Schaich (he): uncountably infinite.
David Schaich (he): What we can do just do is repeat the experiments.
David Schaich (he): A large number of times
David Schaich (he): average over the results.
David Schaich (he): and that's for sure that's the
David Schaich (he): is reflecting the true
David Schaich (he): features of the probability space
David Schaich (he): in particular. It's
meeting that you
David Schaich (he): any questions about
David Schaich (he): either this conclusion or
David Schaich (he): the calculation that led to it, based on the concept of repeating experiments, multiple times.
David Schaich (he): shaking hands to the next
David Schaich (he): target.
David Schaich (he): For today
David Schaich (he): we should be able to get through is going to be just a segment of the Central.
David Schaich (he): and in order to
David Schaich (he): get to that.
David Schaich (he): we we will see that the
David Schaich (he): central.
David Schaich (he): probably
David Schaich (he): distribution
David Schaich (he): a slow generalization.
David Schaich (he): Oh.
David Schaich (he): the probability spaces that we have looked at so far.
David Schaich (he): We've said before that
David Schaich (he): the outcome sets we consider it
David Schaich (he): as this would have been
David Schaich (he): finite sets
David Schaich (he): talking about. I have a company illustration like here
we just
David Schaich (he): accountable number
David Schaich (he): in this case a finite number of outcomes.
David Schaich (he): I mean. You have
David Schaich (he): the possibility of
David Schaich (he): continuous outcome of X
David Schaich (he): any uncountable
David Schaich (he): out from Space Day
David Schaich (he): that all of these discrete sounds that we've had in all we're talking about expectation values
David Schaich (he): to be
David Schaich (he): generalized
David Schaich (he): to
David Schaich (he): integrals
David Schaich (he): just as
David Schaich (he): all this many years ago.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): but we have them.
David Schaich (he): is
David Schaich (he): the probability, distribution.
David Schaich (he): what
David Schaich (he): we also call probability
David Schaich (he): density
David Schaich (he): that has to be
David Schaich (he): integrated
David Schaich (he): in order to
David Schaich (he): you have the source of probabilities that
David Schaich (he): you've been talking about so far.
David Schaich (he): So maybe it's just easy to to write down
David Schaich (he): mathematical statement that goes along with
David Schaich (he): all of these words, that the probability
David Schaich (he): of having an outcome X.
David Schaich (he): And so
David Schaich (he): range of this
David Schaich (he): continuous
David Schaich (he): space of possibilities, so in between
David Schaich (he): A and B
David Schaich (he): is the
David Schaich (he): integral from a to the
David Schaich (he): as a continuous function of a lowercase, X.
David Schaich (he): And so
David Schaich (he): it's just a real number.
David Schaich (he): So, rather than having a accountable set
David Schaich (he): of outcomes, each of which has a probability.
David Schaich (he): We have to talk about the probability that our continuous outcome, or to use X
David Schaich (he): is in
David Schaich (he): well to find that range region a to B, which could be even accessible
David Schaich (he): just in a way that capitalist allows us to consider
David Schaich (he): things like expectation values
David Schaich (he): also generalized
David Schaich (he): for probability distributions.
David Schaich (he): So the expectation
David Schaich (he): general function of these continuous outcomes
David Schaich (he): is now
David Schaich (he): the integral
David Schaich (he): over that function.
David Schaich (he): we by the
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): if I don't have that
David Schaich (he): upper over limits.
David Schaich (he): It is a goal
David Schaich (he): there.
David Schaich (he): It will personally be integrating over the
David Schaich (he): whole range
David Schaich (he): of X. So, as one example, we look at the expectation value.
David Schaich (he): Oh.
David Schaich (he): number one!
David Schaich (he): Just one times I get to go over the probability across this whole range.
David Schaich (he): which, by the definition
David Schaich (he): of probabilities as a measure function.
David Schaich (he): It's just
David Schaich (he): 100%
David Schaich (he): hopefully sensible that
David Schaich (he): some people are integrating over all of the possibilities for a probability
David Schaich (he): gives 100% to you at
David Schaich (he): a year.
David Schaich (he): If there is an outcome in that whole range.
David Schaich (he): For things like
David Schaich (he): the mean of various.
David Schaich (he): you have a
David Schaich (he): of expectation functions.
David Schaich (he): So the integral
David Schaich (he): of X to some power. L.
David Schaich (he): We.
David Schaich (he): This continuous probability density.
David Schaich (he): when L equals one.
David Schaich (he): just pick up
David Schaich (he): the mean
David Schaich (he): you with the expectation on the X
David Schaich (he): variance only requires
David Schaich (he): considering
David Schaich (he): in case L equals 2 in addition to
David Schaich (he): that means. So
David Schaich (he): that really is all that we need just to state
David Schaich (he): at least the 4, 1, 8 central, that 0
David Schaich (he): hold in for
David Schaich (he): this molecule.
David Schaich (he): So I should say.
David Schaich (he): going into
David Schaich (he): this relatively brief statement that
David Schaich (he): there are lots of variations in the central limit here that
David Schaich (he): with different situations for context, there are lots of ways to prove them
David Schaich (he): you won't. Be going into any of those
David Schaich (he): form of this.
David Schaich (he): applying this
David Schaich (he): to
David Schaich (he): various
David Schaich (he): applications
David Schaich (he): started all
David Schaich (he): most likely through Thursday's tutorial.
David Schaich (he): Analyze that, you know, like an example. We the that we talked about yesterday
David Schaich (he): to that place.
David Schaich (he): So, without further ado.
David Schaich (he): we will define our State the central limit for a while.
David Schaich (he): considering and
David Schaich (he): random variables
David Schaich (he): which.
David Schaich (he): and call X one to
David Schaich (he): X in the usual way
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): the clearing that
David Schaich (he): in addition.
David Schaich (he): each of these and
David Schaich (he): random variables are
David Schaich (he): identically distributed.
David Schaich (he): which is just the statements that
David Schaich (he): they have you
David Schaich (he): same
David Schaich (he): and secret square
David Schaich (he): in every case.
David Schaich (he): So
David Schaich (he): this is exactly what we get from.
David Schaich (he): Yes.
David Schaich (he): repetition of an experiment that we started off
David Schaich (he): today. We
David Schaich (he): so
David Schaich (he): it's
David Schaich (he): will give us exactly
David Schaich (he): the set of so-called
David Schaich (he): similar to
David Schaich (he): the Arabic.
David Schaich (he): the so
David Schaich (he): of all these random variables. Called S.
David Schaich (he): This is also
David Schaich (he): sorry about that
David Schaich (he): some as a whole.
David Schaich (he): is a random variable.
The central
David Schaich (he): States.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): We have a large number
David Schaich (he): of
David Schaich (he): He's
David Schaich (he): identical and identically distributed random variables
David Schaich (he): probability distribution. But probably
David Schaich (he): yesterday.
David Schaich (he): for the song
David Schaich (he): is approximately
David Schaich (he): the following.
David Schaich (he): for the
David Schaich (he): this is
David Schaich (he): written down.
Oops.
David Schaich (he): So what do we have here?
David Schaich (he): This expression for
David Schaich (he): probability, density of the sum of the large number of random variables
David Schaich (he): is given by.
David Schaich (he): There you go
David Schaich (he): distribution.
David Schaich (he): so we can see is an exponential.
The
David Schaich (he): random variable s
David Schaich (he): squared
David Schaich (he): the with the this
David Schaich (he): is determined by the variance of each
David Schaich (he): all these random variables.
David Schaich (he): And
David Schaich (he): what over the pre-factor here is something that
David Schaich (he): it's just set.
David Schaich (he): So this
David Schaich (he): is a well-defined probability distribution.
David Schaich (he): We integrate the session function over
David Schaich (he): all possible values. Of this
David Schaich (he): it's a real number, then
David Schaich (he): that is normalized to a 100% that we need.
David Schaich (he): So the
David Schaich (he): remarkable thing about the central limit
David Schaich (he): what connects it to
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): underlying concept of version of our scale behavior that we're focusing on is that we are
David Schaich (he): seeing the collective behavior of
David Schaich (he): a large number of
David Schaich (he): independence
David Schaich (he): degrees of freedom
David Schaich (he): being described, based on the
David Schaich (he): properties of the you
David Schaich (he): probability for each one of those
David Schaich (he): the various
David Schaich (he): and
David Schaich (he): mean of the probability distributions
David Schaich (he): for
David Schaich (he): a single one of these
David Schaich (he): is all that we need to know in order to
David Schaich (he): predict the collective behavior.
David Schaich (he): probably a large number of them.
David Schaich (he): In practice.
David Schaich (he): This
David Schaich (he): theorem turns out to be reasonably accurate, reasonably quickly.
David Schaich (he): You know that
David Schaich (he): hold on
David Schaich (he): showing me
David Schaich (he): the way it works. I,
David Schaich (he): by the way, this year, too.
David Schaich (he): get this page to fit in the screen. But what this is is looking at the probabilities of
David Schaich (he): rolling a six-sided by
David Schaich (he): some number of times so, and
David Schaich (he): between one to 5 and then summing up the outcome that we get
David Schaich (he): a problem
David Schaich (he): that many times. So at the end of this one case this is an example we talked about
David Schaich (he): yesterday.
David Schaich (he): We have equal probability of 1 6 for getting any one of the 6 possible signs of the time
David Schaich (he): as we roll it out more and more often and add things up.
David Schaich (he): you see the
David Schaich (he): probabilities change
David Schaich (he): the minimum.
It's always equal
David Schaich (he): to
David Schaich (he): the number of times
David Schaich (he): that the dials roll.
David Schaich (he): There's only one possible way of getting that. We have to go to 0 every time giving us 2, 3, 4, 5,
David Schaich (he): 2, 3, 4, 5.
David Schaich (he): See
David Schaich (he): program
David Schaich (he): start counting.
David Schaich (he): There's also only one way to get the maximum. You have to roll the 6 every time
David Schaich (he): you can get up to
David Schaich (he): 12 from 2 roles, 1824.
David Schaich (he): There are
David Schaich (he): a
David Schaich (he): one of the possibilities to get the numbers in between. There's not just the the one way to
David Schaich (he): do this.
David Schaich (he): People.
David Schaich (he): hey?
David Schaich (he): One, first and 2s to the 3 or the 2 first, 1s, so that's no one
David Schaich (he): in the case of 2 roles.
David Schaich (he): and so on to get these shapes that the following that over here is maybe the most
David Schaich (he): interesting
David Schaich (he): outcome.
David Schaich (he): Here
David Schaich (he): the probability
David Schaich (he): distributions are being plotted with some
David Schaich (he): something about the axes
David Schaich (he): to
David Schaich (he): the distribution that is showing is that continuous
David Schaich (he): black crew.
David Schaich (he): and this, and increases
David Schaich (he): from one to 2,
David Schaich (he): 3, 4, and 5.
David Schaich (he): You see these commonly distributions. I'm. Getting steadily closer
David Schaich (he): to the simple caption.
David Schaich (he): Yes.
David Schaich (he): is the the
David Schaich (he): so these are. This is a simple accounting experiment that you can do on your own. And
David Schaich (he): yeah, give it the time.
David Schaich (he): In the tutorial Thursday, you know. Somewhat more interesting example.
David Schaich (he): It was right.
David Schaich (he): this sort of behavior
David Schaich (he): as well.
David Schaich (he): and maybe
David Schaich (he): that is.
David Schaich (he): And
David Schaich (he): the
David Schaich (he): how does this that
David Schaich (he): it's giving us insight into
David Schaich (he): collective behavior
David Schaich (he): just based on it
David Schaich (he): properties
David Schaich (he): and what you had to.
David Schaich (he): Oh.
David Schaich (he): Thursday, I
David Schaich (he): an example
David Schaich (he): showing how the Central
David Schaich (he): and that that challenge you
experiment.
David Schaich (he): that's all.
David Schaich (he): You can also
David Schaich (he): use that as a way to introduce some of the
David Schaich (he): our programming.
David Schaich (he): We dive into 4. We go next Tuesday and the the first computer.
David Schaich (he): The computer project should also
David Schaich (he): checked and ready to
David Schaich (he): share with you my
David Schaich (he): Thursday morning.
David Schaich (he): And then
David Schaich (he): next time one day working, we will look at the
David Schaich (he): random walks that would be next big topic
David Schaich (he): They are
David Schaich (he): i'm going to.
David Schaich (he): I like some of this
David Schaich (he): all one abstract
David Schaich (he): discussions of the all of our numbers, etc., when it comes together into
David Schaich (he): hey
David Schaich (he): application that is actually fairly general and powerful.
David Schaich (he): The behavior of an object that can take random steps
David Schaich (he): in some directions
David Schaich (he): which
David Schaich (he): it could be just in the example of graveling. Not that yesterday
David Schaich (he): we talked about pollen grains that were being randomly kicked by the water, and all the people that were sitting in.
David Schaich (he): They move around randomly.
David Schaich (he): but random walks can also be
to model
David Schaich (he): genetic drift as populations.
David Schaich (he): as well as just random fluctuations in
David Schaich (he): to the stock prices.
David Schaich (he): I random walking in running space. Some of you may or see
David Schaich (he): some of the financial mass
David Schaich (he): modules.
David Schaich (he): So that's the plan for tutorial and starting next week
David Schaich (he): questions about what we've seen
David Schaich (he): today. You call me
David Schaich (he): holiday.
David Schaich (he): Not seeing any. I'll let you go.
David Schaich (he): Yeah.
David Schaich (he): forward to see you again Thursday morning.
David Schaich (he): Okay, by the next time we're in this room.
David Schaich (he): be able to
David Schaich (he): get the
David Schaich (he): projector to share on the screen here. Not sure how
David Schaich (he): visible
David Schaich (he): all of that words.